README.md, before:

# Squareone

[![GitHub Actions](https://github.com/lsst-sqre/squareone/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lsst-sqre/squareone/actions/) [![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/squareone-lsst.io-brightgreen.svg)](https://squareone.lsst.io)

Squareone is a monorepo for [Rubin Observatory](https://rubinobservatory.org) Data Management's front-end applications and packages.

**Documentation for developers and operators:** https://squareone.lsst.io

## Applications in Squareone

- `squareone` (the app) is the landing page for the Rubin Science Platform. It's where you start on your journey to use the RSP's portal, notebooks, and APIs to do science with Rubin/LSST data. You can see Squareone in action at [data.lsst.cloud](https://data.lsst.cloud). [The Squareone app is deployed with Phalanx](https://phalanx.lsst.io/applications/squareone/).

## Packages in Squareone

- `@lsst-sqre/rubin-style-dictonary` is a design token package based on the [Rubin Observatory Visual Identity Manual](https://docushare.lsst.org/docushare/dsweb/Get/Document-37294/20210212%20Visual%20Identity%20Manual%20—V7.pdf), build with [style-dictionary](https://amzn.github.io/style-dictionary/).

## Technology stack

- Squareone is a monorepo managed with [pnpm](https://pnpm.io), [Turborepo](https://turbo.build/repo), and [Changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets).

- The apps are built with [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) and [React](https://reactjs.org). Next.js allows the site to be dynamically configured for different Science Platform deployments.

- Styling is done through [styled-components](https://styled-components.com) (along with global CSS).

## Development

To set up your development environment and run the site locally, see Squareone's development documentation: https://squareone.lsst.io/dev/

Commit message:

Add a shared tsconfig package
This provides a core set of tsconfig.json configurations that individual
applications/packages can extend.

It's based on the Turborepo examples; https://github.com/vercel/turbo/tree/main/examples/design-system/packages/acme-tsconfig

README.md, after:

# Squareone

[![GitHub Actions](https://github.com/lsst-sqre/squareone/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lsst-sqre/squareone/actions/) [![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/squareone-lsst.io-brightgreen.svg)](https://squareone.lsst.io)

Squareone is a monorepo for [Rubin Observatory](https://rubinobservatory.org) Data Management's front-end applications and packages.

**Documentation for developers and operators:** https://squareone.lsst.io

## Applications in Squareone

- `squareone` (the app) is the landing page for the Rubin Science Platform. It's where you start on your journey to use the RSP's portal, notebooks, and APIs to do science with Rubin/LSST data. You can see Squareone in action at [data.lsst.cloud](https://data.lsst.cloud). [The Squareone app is deployed with Phalanx](https://phalanx.lsst.io/applications/squareone/).

## Packages in Squareone

- `@lsst-sqre/rubin-style-dictonary` is a design token package based on the [Rubin Observatory Visual Identity Manual](https://docushare.lsst.org/docushare/dsweb/Get/Document-37294/20210212%20Visual%20Identity%20Manual%20—V7.pdf), build with [style-dictionary](https://amzn.github.io/style-dictionary/).
- `@lsst-sqre/tsconfig` is a shared TypeScript configuration for Squareone applications and packages.

## Technology stack

- Squareone is a monorepo managed with [pnpm](https://pnpm.io), [Turborepo](https://turbo.build/repo), and [Changesets](https://github.com/changesets/changesets).

- The apps are built with [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) and [React](https://reactjs.org). Next.js allows the site to be dynamically configured for different Science Platform deployments.

- Styling is done through [styled-components](https://styled-components.com) (along with global CSS).

## Development

To set up your development environment and run the site locally, see Squareone's development documentation: https://squareone.lsst.io/dev/
