docs/dev/set-up.rst, before:

####################################
Setting up a development environment
####################################

This page describes how to set up a development environment for the Squareone monorepo.

To get the Squareone codebase, fork the `Squareone repository`_ if you're an external contributor, or clone it if you're a member of the repository or SQuaRE:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/lsst-sqre/squareone

Node.js
=======

Squareone uses Node.js.
To get a version of Node.js that matches how we run Squareone in CI and production, use `nvm`_.
First, follow the nvm_ installation documentation then activate the node environment in a cloned Squareone repository:

.. code-block:: bash

    nvm use

.. tip::

   The node version is defined by the :file:`.nvmrc` file in the Squareone repository.

pnpm
====

Squareone uses pnpm_ to manage Node.js dependencies.
See the `pnpm installation documentation <https://pnpm.io/installation>`_ to install it.

Install Squareone dependencies
==============================

Install the JavaScript packages:

.. code-block:: bash

   pnpm install turbo --global
   pnpm install

When you install the Squareone monorepo package, it will also install the Husky-based pre-commit hooks that lint the codebase.

Installing turbo globally is recommended so that you have the :command:`turbo` command available.
This globally-installed turbo will defer to the turbo installed in the Squareone monorepo, so don't worry about minor version mismatches.

.. _set-up-turborepo-cache:

Turborepo remote caching
========================

The Squareone monorepo supports optional remote caching for faster builds using a custom Turborepo cache server at ``https://roundtable.lsst.cloud/turborepo-cache``.

**External contributors:** *no setup required.* Run commands normally (:command:`pnpm build`, :command:`pnpm dev`, etc.).
You'll still use Turborepo's local caching, provides significant speedups for repeated tests and builds.
The remote cache is optional and does not affect your ability to contribute.

**Rubin Observatory staff:** If you want to use the remote cache, you'll need to authenticate.
The ``TURBO_TOKEN`` is a Gafaelfawr user access token for roundtable.lsst.cloud with the ``write:git-lfs`` scope.
Choose one of the following authentication methods:

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: 1Password authentication

        Use 1Password CLI for secure credential management (recommended for personal machines).

        1. **Install 1Password CLI** (if not already installed):

           .. code-block:: bash

              brew install 1password-cli

        2. **Sign in to 1Password CLI**:

           .. code-block:: bash

              op signin lsstit.1password.com

           This ensures you're signed into the LSST IT account where the Employee vault is located.

        3. **Store credentials in 1Password**:

           Create an item in your "Employee" vault (lsstit.1password.com account) named "Turborepo Remote Cache" with these fields:

           - ``api-url``: ``https://roundtable.lsst.cloud/turborepo-cache``
           - ``team``: ``lsst-sqre``
           - ``token``: Your Gafaelfawr user access token (obtain from roundtable.lsst.cloud)

        4. **Create .env.op file** in the repository root:

           .. code-block:: bash

              cp .env.op.example .env.op

           The file should contain:

           .. code-block:: ini

              TURBO_API="op://Employee/Turborepo Remote Cache/api-url"
              TURBO_TOKEN="op://Employee/Turborepo Remote Cache/token"
              TURBO_TEAM="op://Employee/Turborepo Remote Cache/team"

           The wrapper automatically uses the lsstit.1password.com account. Adjust the vault name ("Employee") and item name if you stored the credentials differently.

        5. **Run commands normally** - authentication happens automatically:

           .. code-block:: bash

              pnpm build  # Uses remote cache via 1Password

        The wrapper script will detect :file:`.env.op` and automatically use ``op run`` to inject your credentials securely.

    .. tab-item:: .env file authentication

        Use a plain :file:`.env` file for direct environment variable access.

        1. **Create .env file** in the repository root:

           .. code-block:: bash

              cp .env.example .env

        2. **Fill in your credentials** in :file:`.env`:

           .. code-block:: ini

              TURBO_API=https://roundtable.lsst.cloud/turborepo-cache
              TURBO_TOKEN=your-gafaelfawr-token-here
              TURBO_TEAM=lsst-sqre

        3. **Run commands normally**:

           .. code-block:: bash

              pnpm build  # Uses remote cache via .env

        The wrapper script will detect :file:`.env` and automatically load these variables using ``dotenv``.
        This file should never be committed to Git and is included in :file:`.gitignore`.

See :doc:`remote-cache` for more details about the remote cache authentication system, troubleshooting, and infrastructure information.

.. _docs-setup:

Python dependencies for documentation
=====================================

The Squareone documentation uses Sphinx_, a Python-based documentation generator.
To make it easier to install and manage Python dependencies, we use `nox`_ to manage a virtual environment and run tasks in them.

To install nox, run:

.. code-block:: bash

   python -m pip install nox

Next steps
==========

See :doc:`development-tasks` for common development tasks.

Commit message:

Add environment variable auth for Turborepo cache
Adds support for pre-set environment variables as the highest priority
authentication method for Turborepo remote caching. This enables
zero-configuration remote cache access in CI/CD pipelines where
credentials are injected as secrets.

The wrapper now checks for TURBO_API, TURBO_TOKEN, and TURBO_TEAM
environment variables before checking for .env.op or .env files. If
all three are set, they are used directly without loading any
configuration files.

Updated authentication priority:
1. Pre-set environment variables (new)
2. 1Password CLI with .env.op file
3. Plain .env file
4. No authentication (local cache only)

Documentation updated to reflect the new authentication method and
priority order, with notes for CI/CD usage.

docs/dev/set-up.rst, after:

####################################
Setting up a development environment
####################################

This page describes how to set up a development environment for the Squareone monorepo.

To get the Squareone codebase, fork the `Squareone repository`_ if you're an external contributor, or clone it if you're a member of the repository or SQuaRE:

.. code-block:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/lsst-sqre/squareone

Node.js
=======

Squareone uses Node.js.
To get a version of Node.js that matches how we run Squareone in CI and production, use `nvm`_.
First, follow the nvm_ installation documentation then activate the node environment in a cloned Squareone repository:

.. code-block:: bash

    nvm use

.. tip::

   The node version is defined by the :file:`.nvmrc` file in the Squareone repository.

pnpm
====

Squareone uses pnpm_ to manage Node.js dependencies.
See the `pnpm installation documentation <https://pnpm.io/installation>`_ to install it.

Install Squareone dependencies
==============================

Install the JavaScript packages:

.. code-block:: bash

   pnpm install turbo --global
   pnpm install

When you install the Squareone monorepo package, it will also install the Husky-based pre-commit hooks that lint the codebase.

Installing turbo globally is recommended so that you have the :command:`turbo` command available.
This globally-installed turbo will defer to the turbo installed in the Squareone monorepo, so don't worry about minor version mismatches.

.. _set-up-turborepo-cache:

Turborepo remote caching
========================

The Squareone monorepo supports optional remote caching for faster builds using a custom Turborepo cache server at ``https://roundtable.lsst.cloud/turborepo-cache``.

**External contributors:** *no setup required.* Run commands normally (:command:`pnpm build`, :command:`pnpm dev`, etc.).
You'll still use Turborepo's local caching, provides significant speedups for repeated tests and builds.
The remote cache is optional and does not affect your ability to contribute.

**Rubin Observatory staff:** If you want to use the remote cache, you'll need to authenticate.
The ``TURBO_TOKEN`` is a Gafaelfawr user access token for roundtable.lsst.cloud with the ``write:git-lfs`` scope.

.. note::

   If ``TURBO_API``, ``TURBO_TOKEN``, and ``TURBO_TEAM`` are already set as environment variables (e.g., in CI/CD pipelines with secret injection), the wrapper will automatically use them without requiring any configuration files.

Choose one of the following authentication methods:

.. tab-set::

    .. tab-item:: 1Password authentication

        Use 1Password CLI for secure credential management (recommended for personal machines).

        1. **Install 1Password CLI** (if not already installed):

           .. code-block:: bash

              brew install 1password-cli

        2. **Sign in to 1Password CLI**:

           .. code-block:: bash

              op signin lsstit.1password.com

           This ensures you're signed into the LSST IT account where the Employee vault is located.

        3. **Store credentials in 1Password**:

           Create an item in your "Employee" vault (lsstit.1password.com account) named "Turborepo Remote Cache" with these fields:

           - ``api-url``: ``https://roundtable.lsst.cloud/turborepo-cache``
           - ``team``: ``lsst-sqre``
           - ``token``: Your Gafaelfawr user access token (obtain from roundtable.lsst.cloud)

        4. **Create .env.op file** in the repository root:

           .. code-block:: bash

              cp .env.op.example .env.op

           The file should contain:

           .. code-block:: ini

              TURBO_API="op://Employee/Turborepo Remote Cache/api-url"
              TURBO_TOKEN="op://Employee/Turborepo Remote Cache/token"
              TURBO_TEAM="op://Employee/Turborepo Remote Cache/team"

           The wrapper automatically uses the lsstit.1password.com account. Adjust the vault name ("Employee") and item name if you stored the credentials differently.

        5. **Run commands normally** - authentication happens automatically:

           .. code-block:: bash

              pnpm build  # Uses remote cache via 1Password

        The wrapper script will detect :file:`.env.op` and automatically use ``op run`` to inject your credentials securely.

    .. tab-item:: .env file authentication

        Use a plain :file:`.env` file for direct environment variable access.

        1. **Create .env file** in the repository root:

           .. code-block:: bash

              cp .env.example .env

        2. **Fill in your credentials** in :file:`.env`:

           .. code-block:: ini

              TURBO_API=https://roundtable.lsst.cloud/turborepo-cache
              TURBO_TOKEN=your-gafaelfawr-token-here
              TURBO_TEAM=lsst-sqre

        3. **Run commands normally**:

           .. code-block:: bash

              pnpm build  # Uses remote cache via .env

        The wrapper script will detect :file:`.env` and automatically load these variables using ``dotenv``.
        This file should never be committed to Git and is included in :file:`.gitignore`.

See :doc:`remote-cache` for more details about the remote cache authentication system, troubleshooting, and infrastructure information.

.. _docs-setup:

Python dependencies for documentation
=====================================

The Squareone documentation uses Sphinx_, a Python-based documentation generator.
To make it easier to install and manage Python dependencies, we use `nox`_ to manage a virtual environment and run tasks in them.

To install nox, run:

.. code-block:: bash

   python -m pip install nox

Next steps
==========

See :doc:`development-tasks` for common development tasks.
